Manage user permission in linux
Answers :1. Core Concepts to Mention
Three Permission Types:

Read (r): View file content/list directory.

Write (w): Modify file/delete directory contents.

Execute (x): Run file/enter directory.

Three Permission Levels:

Owner (u): User who owns the file.

Group (g): Group with access.

Others (o): All other users.

Numeric vs. Symbolic Permissions:



chmod 755 (Numeric: 7=rwx, 5=rx).

chmod u=rwx,g=rx,o=r (Symbolic).

best security of docker containers best practices

1. Image Security (Must-Know)
"Always use minimal/base images (Alpine, Distroless) to reduce attack surface."

"Scan images for vulnerabilities using Trivy/Clair before deployment."

"Avoid using :latest tags – pin versions to prevent unexpected updates."

"Use multi-stage builds to exclude build tools from final images."

2. Runtime Protection (Critical)
"Never run containers as root – use USER directive and --user flag."

"Drop unnecessary capabilities (--cap-drop=ALL --cap-add=NET_BIND_SERVICE)."

"Set containers to read-only (--read-only) where possible."

"Use no-new-privileges: true to prevent privilege escalation."

3. Network & Access Control
"Isolate networks – avoid --net=host and use custom Docker networks."

"Restrict container communication with --icc=false and network policies."

"Secure Docker daemon with TLS and avoid exposing /var/run/docker.sock."

4. Secrets & Credentials (Top Priority)
"Never store secrets in images – use Docker Secrets/Kubernetes Secrets/Vault."

"Use environment variables cautiously – they can leak in logs/metadata."

"Bind-mount sensitive files (-v /host/path:/container/path:ro)."

5. Monitoring & Compliance
"Audit container activities with tools like Falco or auditd."

"Follow CIS Docker Benchmark for hardening."

"Enforce resource limits (--memory, --cpu-quota) to prevent DoS."

best security of kubernetes clusters best practices :

1. Cluster Setup & Hardening (Fundamental)
"Use a hardened Kubernetes distribution (e.g., OpenShift, EKS with CIS benchmarks)."

"Disable anonymous authentication (--anonymous-auth=false in kube-apiserver)."

"Enable RBAC (Role-Based Access Control) and disable legacy ABAC."

"Apply Pod Security Standards (PSS) or PodSecurityPolicy (PSP) / OPA Gatekeeper to enforce security policies."

"Use Network Policies (Calico, Cilium) to restrict pod-to-pod traffic."

Quick Win:
✔ "Always run kube-bench (CIS benchmark tool) to check compliance."

2. Authentication & Authorization (Critical)
"Integrate with an identity provider (LDAP, OIDC, Active Directory)."

"Follow least privilege principle – use Role and ClusterRole wisely."

"Avoid wildcard permissions (* in RBAC rules)."

"Use short-lived tokens (ServiceAccount tokens, OAuth2) instead of static credentials."

"Enable audit logging (--audit-log-path in kube-apiserver)."

Standout Answer:
💡 "In my last role, we automated RBAC reviews with rbac-lookup and kubectl-who-can."

3. Workload Security (Pods & Containers)
"Run containers as non-root (securityContext.runAsNonRoot: true)."

"Set readOnlyRootFilesystem: true where possible."

"Drop unnecessary capabilities (NET_RAW, SYS_ADMIN)."

"Use Pod Security Admission (PSA) in Kubernetes 1.25+."

"Scan images for vulnerabilities (Trivy, Clair) before deployment."

Quick Win:
✔ "Use distroless or scratch base images to minimize attack surface."

4. Network Security (Zero Trust Approach)
"Enable Network Policies (default-deny, allow only required traffic)."

"Use service mesh (Istio, Linkerd) for mTLS encryption between pods."

"Avoid hostNetwork: true (prevents host port exposure)."

"Restrict kubectl proxy and Dashboard access (behind VPN/IAM)."

Final Structured Answer (If Asked "How to Secure a K8s Cluster?")
Cluster Hardening (CIS benchmarks, RBAC, NetworkPolicies)

Workload Security (Non-root, read-only FS, image scanning)

Secrets Management (Vault, encryption at rest)

Monitoring & Threat Detection (Falco, audit logs)

Compliance & Automation (GitOps, OPA policies)
